add release note for v7.5.1 (#16595)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-7.5.1.md

Author: Preview: https://pingcap-docsite-preview-git-751-oreoxmt.vercel.app/tidb/stable/release-7.5.1

---
title: TiDB 7.5.1 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.5.1.
---

# TiDB 7.5.1 Release Notes

Release date: February 29, 2024

TiDB version: 7.5.1

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.5.1#version-list)

## Compatibility changes

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- Prohibit setting [`require_secure_transport`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/system-variables#require_secure_transport-new-in-v610) to `ON` in Security Enhanced Mode (SEM) to prevent potential connectivity issues for users [#47665](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47665) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
```

    - Fix the issue that the `USE_INDEX_MERGE` hint does not take effect on multi-valued indexes [#50553](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50553) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Fix the issue that users might get errors when querying the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.ANALYZE_STATUS` system table [#48835](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48835) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
    - Fix the issue of wrong query results due to TiDB incorrectly eliminating constant values in `group by` [#38756](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38756) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
    - Fix the issue that the `processed_rows` of the `ANALYZE` task on a table might exceed the total number of rows in that table [#50632](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50632) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB might panic when using the `EXECUTE` statement to execute `PREPARE STMT` after the `tidb_enable_prepared_plan_cache` system variable is enabled and then disabled [#49344](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49344) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)

>     - Fix the `Column xxx in from clause is ambiguous` error that might occur when a query uses `NATURAL JOIN` [#32044](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32044) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the `Column ... in from clause is ambiguous` error that might occur when a query uses `NATURAL JOIN` [#32044](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32044) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
```

    - Fix the issue that query results are incorrect when querying with filtering conditions like `ColumnRef in (Literal, Func...)` [#8631](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8631) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
    - Fix the issue that data of TiFlash replicas would still be garbage collected after executing `FLASHBACK DATABASE` [#8450](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8450) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash might not be able to select the GC owner of object storage data under the disaggregated storage and compute architecture [#8519](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8519) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Fix the random invalid memory access issue that might occur with `GREATEST` or `LEAST` functions containing constant string parameters [#8604](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8604) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)

>     - Fix the issue that TiFlash replica data might be accidentally deleted after performing PITR or executing `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO`, which might result in data anomalies [#8777](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8777) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash replica data might be accidentally deleted after performing PITR restore or executing `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO`, which might result in data anomalies [#8777](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8777) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
```

> 

Reviewer: LGTM

    - (dup): release-6.5.7.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that using the `_` wildcard in `LIKE` when the data contains trailing spaces can result in incorrect query results [#48983](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48983) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
    - (dup): release-7.6.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that executing `ADMIN CHECK` after updating the `tidb_mem_quota_query` system variable returns `ERROR 8175` [#49258](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49258) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - (dup): release-6.5.7.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue of excessive statistical error in constructing statistics caused by Golang's implicit conversion algorithm [#49801](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49801) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - (dup): release-6.5.7.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that queries containing CTEs report `runtime error: index out of range [32] with length 32` when `tidb_max_chunk_size` is set to a small value [#48808](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48808) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

+ TiKV
    <!-- tw:@hfxsd (1) -->

>     - 修复开启 checksum 可能导致 TiKV panic 的问题 [#16371](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16371) @[cfzjywxk](github.com/cfzjywxk)

Author: ```suggestion
    - 修复开启 checksum 可能导致 TiKV panic 的问题 [#16371](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16371) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
```

<!-- tw:@Oreoxmt (2) -->

- To reduce the overhead of log printing, TiFlash changes the default value of `logger.level` from `"debug"` to `"info"` [#8641](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8641) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
- (dup): release-6.5.8.md > Compatibility changes - Introduce the TiKV configuration item [`gc.num-threads`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tikv-configuration-file#num-threads-new-in-v658-and-v751) to set the number of GC threads when `enable-compaction-filter` is `false`  [#16101](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16101) @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)
- TiCDC Changefeed introduces the following new configuration items:
    - [`compression`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md): enables you to configure the compression behavior of redo log files [#10176](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10176) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
    - [`sink.cloud-storage-config`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md): enables you to set the automatic cleanup of historical data when replicating data to object storage [#10109](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10109) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

>     - [`consistent.flush-concurrency`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md): enables you to set the concurrency for uploading a single redo file. [#10226](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10226) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - [`consistent.flush-concurrency`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md): enables you to set the concurrency for uploading a single redo file [#10226](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10226) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
```

## Improvements

+ TiDB
    <!-- tw:@hfxsd (1) -->

>     - 在 ddl schema reload 中使用 kv timeout 特性降低 meta region leader 读不可用对于集群影响 [#48124](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48124) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Use the `tikv_client_read_timeout` feature in DDL Schema Reload to reduce the impact of Meta Region Leader read unavailability on the cluster [#48124](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48124) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
```

>     - (dup): release-7.6.0.md > # Observability * Enhance observability related to resource control [#49318](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49318) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - (dup): release-7.6.0.md > # Observability - Enhance observability related to resource control [#49318](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49318) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
```

        As more and more users use resource groups to isolate application workloads, Resource Control provides enhanced data based on resource groups. This helps you monitor resource group workloads and settings, ensuring that you can quickly identify and accurately diagnose problems, including:

>         * [Slow Queries](/identify-slow-queries.md): add the resource group name, resource unit (RU) consumption, and time for waiting for resources.
>         * [Statement Summary Tables](/statement-summary-tables.md): add the resource group name, RU consumption, and time for waiting for resources.
>         * In the system variable [`tidb_last_query_info`](/system-variables.md#tidb_last_query_info-new-in-v4014), add a new entry `ru_consumption` to indicate the consumed [RU](/tidb-resource-control.md#what-is-request-unit-ru) by SQL statements. You can use this variable to get the resource consumption of the last statement in the session.
>         *  Add database metrics based on resource groups: QPS/TPS, execution time (P999/P99/P95), number of failures, and number of connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - [Slow Queries](/identify-slow-queries.md): add the resource group name, resource unit (RU) consumption, and time for waiting for resources.
        - [Statement Summary Tables](/statement-summary-tables.md): add the resource group name, RU consumption, and time for waiting for resources.
        - In the system variable [`tidb_last_query_info`](/system-variables.md#tidb_last_query_info-new-in-v4014), add a new entry `ru_consumption` to indicate the consumed [RU](/tidb-resource-control.md#what-is-request-unit-ru) by SQL statements. You can use this variable to get the resource consumption of the last statement in the session.
        - Add database metrics based on resource groups: QPS/TPS, execution time (P999/P99/P95), number of failures, and number of connections.
```

    - (dup): release-7.6.0.md > Improvements> TiDB - Support multiple accelerated `ADD INDEX` DDL tasks to be queued for execution, instead of falling back to normal `ADD INDEX` tasks [#47758](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47758) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - (dup): release-7.6.0.md > Improvements> TiDB - Improve the speed of adding indexes to empty tables [#49682](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49682) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)

+ TiKV

    - note [#issue](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
    - note [#issue](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

+ PD

    - note [#issue](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
    - note [#issue](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

+ TiFlash
    <!-- tw:@hfxsd (1) -->

>     - 改进 RU 计算，使得 RU 值更稳定 [#8391](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8391) @[guo-shaoge(https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Improve [RU (Request Unit)](/tidb-resource-control.md#what-is-request-unit-ru) calculation to make RU values more stable [#8391](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8391) @[guo-shaoge(https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
```

>     - Improve the calculation method for [RU (Request Unit)](/tidb-resource-control.md#what-is-request-unit-ru) to make RU values more stable [#8391](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8391) @[guo-shaoge(https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Improve the calculation method for [RU (Request Unit)](/tidb-resource-control.md#what-is-request-unit-ru) to make RU values more stable [#8391](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8391) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
```

>     - Improve the calculation method for [RU (Request Unit)](/tidb-resource-control.md#what-is-request-unit-ru) to make RU values more stable [#8391](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8391) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Improve the calculation method for [Request Unit (RU)](/tidb-resource-control.md#what-is-request-unit-ru) to make RU values more stable [#8391](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8391) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
```

    - (dup): release-6.5.7.md > Improvements> TiFlash - Reduce the impact of disk performance jitter on read latency [#8583](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8583) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - (dup): release-6.5.8.md > Improvements> TiFlash - Reduce the impact of background GC tasks on read and write task latency [#8650](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8650) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)
        <!-- tw:@hfxsd (4) -->

>         - Use better algorithms to improve the speed of merging SST files when restoring data [#50613](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50613) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Improve the speed of merging SST files when restoring data by using a more efficient algorithm [#50613](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50613) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
```

>         - 使用更优的算法, 提升 restore 过程中 sst 文件合并的速度 [#50613](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50613) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
>         - 在 restore 过程中批量创建 database [#50767](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50767) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
>         - 在 restore 过程中批量 ingest sst 文件 [#16267](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16267) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
>         - 在日志备份中, 在日志和 metrics 中, 增加打印拖慢 global checkpoint 推进的最慢的 region 的信息 [#51046](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51046) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Use better algorithms to improve the speed of merging SST files when restoring data [#50613](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50613) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Support batch creation of databases when restoring data [#50767](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50767) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Support batch ingest of SST files when restoring data [#16267](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16267) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Print the slowest Region that affects global checkpoint advancement in logs and metrics during log backups [#51046](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51046) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
```

>         - Improve the speed of merging SST files when restoring data by using a more efficient algorithm [#50613](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50613) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
>         - Support creating databases in batch when restoring data [#50767](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50767) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
>         - Support ingesting SST files in batch when restoring data [#16267](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16267) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Improve the speed of merging SST files during data restore by using a more efficient algorithm [#50613](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50613) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Support creating databases in batch during data restore [#50767](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50767) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Support ingesting SST files in batch during data restore [#16267](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16267) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
```

Reviewer: ref: https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/backup-and-restore-faq#what-should-i-do-if-the-error-message-could-not-read-localdownload-sst-failed-is-returned-during-data-restore

        - (dup): release-6.5.7.md > Improvements> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Improve the table creation performance of the `RESTORE` statement in scenarios with large datasets [#48301](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48301) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-6.5.6.md > Improvements> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - BR can pause Region merging by setting the `merge-schedule-limit` configuration to `0` [#7148](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7148) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - (dup): release-7.6.0.md > Improvements> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Refactor the BR exception handling mechanism to increase tolerance for unknown errors [#47656](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47656) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

    + TiCDC
        <!-- tw:@hfxsd (1) -->

>         - 支持从 TiDB Dashboard 直接搜索 TiCDC 的日志 [#10263](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10263) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Support searching TiCDC logs in the TiDB Dashboard [#10263](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10263) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
```

        - (dup): release-6.5.8.md > Improvements> Tools> TiDB Lightning - Improve the performance of `ALTER TABLE` when importing a large number of small tables [#50105](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50105) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

    + Dumpling

        - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
        - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

    + TiUP

        - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tiup/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
        - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tiup/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

    + TiDB Binlog

        - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
        - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB
    <!-- tw:@qiancai (16) -->

>     - Fix the issue that the setting of the global variable `tidb_service_scope` does not take effect [#49245](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49245) @[ywqzzy](https://github.com/ywqzzy)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that setting the system variable `tidb_service_scope` does not take effect [#49245](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49245) @[ywqzzy](https://github.com/ywqzzy)
```

    - Fix the issue that the communication protocol cannot handle packets larger than or equal to 16 MB when compression is enabled [#47157](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47157) [#47161](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47161) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
    - Fix the issue that the `approx_percentile` function might cause TiDB panic [#40463](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40463) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

>     - Fix the issue that TiDB might implicitly insert the `from_binary` function when the argument of string functions is a `NULL` constant, causing some expressions unable to be pushed down to TiFlash [#49526](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49526) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiDB might implicitly insert the `from_binary` function when the argument of a string function is a `NULL` constant, causing some expressions unable to be pushed down to TiFlash [#49526](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49526) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
```

    - 修复 goroutine 在 hash join spill 失败时可能会泄露的问题 [#50841](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50841) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - 修复 bit 类型在参与一些函数计算时可能会因为 decode 失败导致 query 出错的问题 [#49566](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49566), [#50850](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50850), [#50855](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50855) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
    - 修复 CTE query 内存超限时可能会导致 goroutine 泄露的问题 [#50337](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50337) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - 修复在 TiFlash 延迟物化在有关联列时结果可能出错的问题 [#49241](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49241), [#51204](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51204) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
    - 修复 TiDB 记录历史统计信息时，后台工作线程可能 panic 的问题 [#49076](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49076) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

>     - 修复 TiDB 合并分区表全局统计信息的直方图时可能遇到错误失败的问题 [#49023](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49023) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - 修复 TiDB 合并分区表全局统计信息的直方图时可能遇到报错的问题 [#49023](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49023) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
```

>     - Fix the issue that `BIT` type columns might cause query errors due to decode failures when they are involved in calculations of some functions  [#49566](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49566) [#50850](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50850) [#50855](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50855) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `BIT` type columns might cause query errors due to decode failures when they are involved in calculations of some functions [#49566](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49566) [#50850](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50850) [#50855](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50855) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
```

>     - Fix the issue that wrong results might returned when TiFlash late materialization processes associated columns [#49241](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49241)  [#51204](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51204) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that wrong results might returned when TiFlash late materialization processes associated columns [#49241](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49241) [#51204](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51204) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
```

>     - Fix the issue that wrong results might returned when TiFlash late materialization processes associated columns [#49241](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49241) [#51204](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51204) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that wrong results might be returned when TiFlash late materialization processes associated columns [#49241](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49241) [#51204](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51204) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
```

>     - Fix the issue that TiDB might miss recording historical statistics on the `stats_meta` table when recording historical statistics [#49334](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49334) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiDB might miss recording historical statistics on the `stats_meta` table after deleting a partition [#49334](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49334) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
```

>     - Fix the issue of incorrect query results caused by multi-valued indexes mistakenly selected as the `IndexJoin` probe side [#50382](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50382) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of incorrect query results caused by multi-valued indexes mistakenly selected as the `Index Join` probe side [#50382](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50382) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
```

    - (dup): release-6.5.7.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that using the `_` wildcard in `LIKE` when the data contains trailing spaces can result in incorrect query results [#48983](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48983) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
    - (dup): release-7.6.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that executing `ADMIN CHECK` after updating the `tidb_mem_quota_query` system variable returns `ERROR 8175` [#49258](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49258) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - (dup): release-6.5.7.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue of excessive statistical error in constructing statistics caused by Golang's implicit conversion algorithm [#49801](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49801) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - (dup): release-6.5.7.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that queries containing CTEs report `runtime error: index out of range [32] with length 32` when `tidb_max_chunk_size` is set to a small value [#48808](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48808) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

+ TiKV
    <!-- tw:@hfxsd (1) -->

>     - 修复开启 checksum 可能导致 TiKV panic 的问题 [#16371](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16371) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that enabling `tidb_enable_row_level_checksum` might cause TiKV to panic [#16371](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16371) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
```

    - (dup): release-6.5.8.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that TiDB and TiKV might produce inconsistent results when processing `DECIMAL` arithmetic multiplication truncation [#16268](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16268) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
    - (dup): release-6.5.6.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that Flashback might get stuck when encountering `notLeader` or `regionNotFound` [#15712](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15712) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - (dup): release-6.5.7.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that damaged SST files might be spread to other TiKV nodes [#15986](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15986) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - (dup): release-7.1.3.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that if TiKV runs extremely slowly, it might panic after Region merge [#16111](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16111) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - (dup): release-7.1.3.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that the joint state of DR Auto-Sync might time out when scaling out [#15817](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15817) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)

>     - (dup): release-7.1.3.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that Resolved TS might be blocked for two hours [#15520](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15520) [#39130](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39130) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

Reviewer 3: Duplicated with L195
```suggestion
```

    - (dup): release-7.6.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that Resolved TS might be blocked for two hours [#11847](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11847) [#15520](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15520) [#39130](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39130) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - (dup): release-7.6.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that `cast_duration_as_time` might return incorrect results [#16211](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16211) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)

+ PD
    <!-- tw:@hfxsd (5) -->
    - Fix the issue that querying resource groups in batch might cause PD to panic [#7206](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7206) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)

>     - Fix the issue that PD cannot read resource limitation with systemd [#7628](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7628) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
>     - Fix the issue that jittery PD disk latency might cause PD to fail to select a new leader [#7251](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7251) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
>     - Fix the issue that a network partition in PD might cause scheduling not to be started immediately after PD leader change [#7016](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7016) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
>     - Fix the issue that the PD monitor item `learner-peer-count` does not synchronize the old value after a leader switch [#7728](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7728) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that PD cannot read resource limitations when it is started with `systemd` [#7628](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7628) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - Fix the issue that continuous jitter in PD disk latency might cause PD to fail to select a new leader [#7251](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7251) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Fix the issue that a network partition in PD might cause scheduling not to be started immediately [#7016](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7016) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Fix the issue that the PD monitoring item `learner-peer-count` does not synchronize the old value after a leader switch [#7728](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7728) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)
```

    - (dup): release-7.1.3.md > Bug fixes> PD - Fix the issue that when PD leader is transferred and there is a network partition between the new leader and the PD client, the PD client fails to update the information of the leader [#7416](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7416) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)
    - (dup): release-7.1.3.md > Bug fixes> PD - Fix some security issues by upgrading the version of Gin Web Framework from v1.8.1 to v1.9.1 [#7438](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7438) @[niubell](https://github.com/niubell)
    - (dup): release-6.5.7.md > Bug fixes> PD - Fix the issue that the orphan peer is deleted when the number of replicas does not meet the requirements [#7584](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7584) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - (dup): release-6.5.8.md > Bug fixes> PD - Fix the issue that querying a Region without a leader using `pd-ctl` might cause PD to panic [#7630](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7630) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

+ TiFlash
    <!-- tw:@Oreoxmt (5) -->

>     - Fix the issue that TiFlash might panic due to unstable network connection with PD during replica migration [#8323](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8323) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash might panic due to unstable network connections with PD during replica migration [#8323](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8323) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
```

    - Fix the issue that removing and then re-adding TiFlash replicas might lead to data corruption in TiFlash [#8695](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8695) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

>     - Fix a potential issue that some TiFlash replicas might not be able to be recovered after immediately executing `DROP TABLE` and then `FLASHBACK TABLE` or `RECOVER TABLE` following data insertion [#8395](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8395) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix a potential issue that `FLASHBACK TABLE` or `RECOVER TABLE` might fail to recover data of some TiFlash replicas if `DROP TABLE` is executed immediately after data insertion [#8395](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8395) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
```

    - (dup): release-6.5.7.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash - Fix the issue that data of TiFlash replicas would still be garbage collected after executing `FLASHBACK DATABASE` [#8450](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8450) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - (dup): release-7.6.0.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash - Fix the issue that TiFlash might not be able to select the GC owner of object storage data under the disaggregated storage and compute architecture [#8519](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8519) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - (dup): release-7.6.0.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash - Fix the random invalid memory access issue that might occur with `GREATEST` or `LEAST` functions containing constant string parameters [#8604](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8604) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)
        <!-- tw:@hfxsd (4) -->

>         - 修复因为某个 tikv 节点没有 leader 拖慢 restore 的问题 [#50566](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50566) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
>         - 全量恢复指定 --filter 选项后, 不必强制要求目标集群是空的 [#51009](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51009) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
>         - 修复一个 restore 过程中检查集群是否为空的问题 [#50232](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50232) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
>         - 修复一个停止 log backup 作业导致 tidb crash 的问题 [#50839](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50839) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that data restore is slowed down due to the absence of a leader on a TiKV node [#50566](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50566) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Fix the issue that the target cluster still needs to be empty after the `--filter` option is specified for full recovery [#51009](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51009) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Fix the issue that when resuming from a checkpoint after data restore fails, the error "the target cluster is not fresh" occurs [#50232](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50232) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Fix the issue that removing a log backup task causes TiDB to crash [#50839](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50839) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

    - Fix the issue that TiFlash replica data might be accidentally deleted after performing PITR or executing `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO`, which might result in data anomalies [#8777](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8777) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
```

Author: @qiancai PTAL

Reviewer: Done. 修改了下换行

>         - Fix the issue that a cluster still needs to be empty after the `--filter` option is specified for full recovery [#51009](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51009) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
>         - Fix the issue that when resuming from a checkpoint after data restore fails, an error "the target cluster is not fresh" occurs [#50232](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50232) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
>         - Fix the issue that removing a log backup task causes TiDB to crash [#50839](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50839) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that full restore still requires the target cluster to be empty after the `--filter` option is specified [#51009](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51009) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Fix the issue that when resuming from a checkpoint after data restore fails, an error `the target cluster is not fresh` occurs [#50232](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50232) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Fix the issue that stopping a log backup task causes TiDB to crash [#50839](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50839) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
```

        - (dup): release-6.5.7.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix the issue that the log backup task can start but does not work properly if failing to connect to PD during task initialization [#16056](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16056) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - (dup): release-7.1.3.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix the issue that BR generates incorrect URIs for external storage files [#48452](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48452) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - (dup): release-6.5.8.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix the issue that log backup gets stuck after changing the TiKV IP address on the same node [#50445](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50445) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - (dup): release-6.5.8.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix the issue that BR cannot retry when encountering an error while reading file content from S3 [#49942](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49942) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

    + TiCDC
        <!-- tw:@Oreoxmt (4) -->

>         - Fix the issue that the sink module fails to restart correctly after encountering an error when sync-point is enabled [#10091](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10091) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the sink module fails to restart correctly after encountering an error when Syncpoint is enabled (`enable-sync-point = true`) [#10091](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10091) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
```

        - Fix the issue that the file sequence number generated by the storage service might not increment correctly when using the storage sink [#10352](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10352) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

>         - Fix the issue that the sync-point table might be incorrectly synchronized [#10576](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10576) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the sync-point table might be incorrectly replicated [#10576](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10576) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```

>         - Fix the issue that the sync-point table might be incorrectly replicated [#10576](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10576) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the Syncpoint table might be incorrectly replicated [#10576](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10576) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```

>         - Fix the issue that OAuth2.0, TLS, and mTLS could not be enabled properly when using Apache Pulsar as the downstream [#10602](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10602) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that OAuth2.0, TLS, and mTLS cannot be enabled properly when using Apache Pulsar as the downstream [#10602](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10602) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```
